---
layout: post
title:  "Why? Part 1"
---

* *Q*: Why do optical design programs have so many GRIN models? I never use them!
 * *A*: The reason I know of (besides GRIN lenses) is to model
thermal index variations. You can use
mechanical FEA codes to determine the temperature distribution in your glass.
If you know $dn/dT$ (which I think is pretty linear), you can convert a
temperature distribution to an index distribution. Fit the index distribution
with some GRIN models and you can assess your performance across temperature in
the optical design program.

* *Q*: Why do we care about Zernikes? Sure they're fun theoretically, but I never
use them at work.
 * *A*: Again, real-world performance modeling. Hop into your FEA code, model
your system across temperature or whatever you're subjecting it to, get the
lens or mirror deformations, fit Zernikes to them, and drop it into the optical
design program to check the optical performance.
You've also got the testing people who use them on their interferometer data,
but seeing as I've never seen an interferogram in my professional life, I'm not
the one to elaborate on that.

* *Q*: Why do we care about diffraction gratings so much? We keep deriving the
grating equation and I don't know why it matters.
 * *A*: This is one no one explained to me in school and when I figured
it out at my first job it seemed extremely obvious. Broadband light comes in,
diffraction grating splits it up. The trick is, the grating specifically gives you a
wavelength-dependent angle, which is the same thing as a transverse phase. As we
know from Fourier optics, a phase in one domain is a shift in the other. So,
stick the grating at the Fourier plane of a 4f system and suddenly your
different input wavelengths are being cleanly mapped to the image plane. Turn that
into a reflective system with some apertures and a detector and you've got an
optical spectrum analyzer or spectrometer (I think the difference is in the
detection electronics and whether or not the grating moves, i.e., OSA =
monochromator + detector, whereas spectrometer = monochromator with fixed grating
+ line array. I might be missing some subtlety there). That also plays nicely into understanding
where the resolution limits of grating OSAs comes from. Assuming you're not
pixel-size-limited, your resolution comes from the etendue of your input fiber,
the choice of grating, and whatever signal processing you do (I think). For more info on
OSA construction, there's a good Keysight application note if you search for
"Optical Spectrum Analyzer Basics" on your search engine of choice.
